Hello and welcome back to the course of
R programming. Now that we've talked about
the theory of named objects, let's see
how it all works out in practice. So here
we've got R studio and this is what we
talked about last time, we talked about
the matrix function, the R bind
function and the C bind function and
all of them were used to create matrices.
So now let's create a new file and here
we're going to start with named vector,
so hashtag named vectors.
Alright, follow along and we're going to
create a vector. Let's call him Charlie
right? Let's give this vector name and
we'll put the numbers 1:5, so very simple
vector if we type in Charlie now we've
got our vector 1,2,3,4,5 beautiful!
Ok so let's make it a name to vector
right? Let's give it names, give names.
Well we need the names function and the
way it works is you type in names and
then in brackets you type in the object
that you want to check the names for. So
first thing we're going to do is we're
going to check the names, so if you just
write it like this
names Charlie it will tell you the names
of the elements and right now it's just
returning null and in R or in
programming, null basically means nothing.
So it's not anything that something is.
It's just nothing, there's there are no names
and it couldn't look them up. There are
not even zeroes. They're not even empty values,
they're just null. There are no names and
that's why we're getting it all because
indeed they are no names for the
spectrum so let's create some some names.
How do you perform this procedure? Well
this is going to be interesting,
especially for those of you coming from
a programming background because what
we're going to see now it doesn't happen
often in programming. So here we've got
the vector named Charlie as we've got
this function names around charlie and
as we know about functions of this
function returns a value right? So in
this case, it returned to null
but what you can actually do with this
specific function is you can assign it a
value, so I'm just going to type it out
and then I'll explain what we're doing.
So let's say we want to assign this vector
names just like in our example and we
want to call ABCD and E and now what
we're doing here is we're actually
assigning this vector of five element
to a function. Isn't that's crazy right?
It's pretty strange, well well how
the best way to think about it is R
allows you to treat this part on the
left as an object, so when you calling
and that's not for all functions, that's just for
specific functions and for instance
names so when you are calling names, Charlie. It's
like you're looking at the
characteristic of the vector Charlie
which is its names right? You can just
run this bid by itself and then you'll
find out the names or you can assign it
about, so if you think of names Charlie
as an object as another vector that
always accompanies Charlie and then it
would kind of make more sense and so now
if we run this line what will happen is
Charlie will get some names and let's
check out charlie.
So if you look at Charlie now you'll see
that this is now a named vector those
are the values 1,2,3,4,5 and those are names
about them ABCD and E, so if I want to
access that number four
then how would I do it? I would say Charlie
and I would type in the name of that
element which is D and I run that and
there we go, so I get back this number
four.
Ok awesome and now I can also check the
names of Charlie, right. So if I run that,
ABCD and E and by the way, here you can
see that concept that we talked about before,
that everything in R is a vector, so
even though we're calling out just one
element, it's returning a vector of length
1 which is also named vector. It has the
name D for this only one on it, but
let's not get bogged down with that
that's just to reiterate something we
talked about before.
Alright so we've got the names of
Charlie over here and Charlie is the named
vector. There it is, now what we want to
learn is we want to learn how to clear
names right? So if we want to clear names,
how do we do it? Because some people get
very upset that meant that sometimes
vectors or as will seem matrices have
names. There is very easy way to clear it
just say Charlie and instead of giving
it some names, just type in null here, do
that and then when you look at Charlie
now, he won't have any more names for
the elements and that's how you clear
names from a named vector.
Okay we're done with named vectors, it's
all
pretty simple stuff right? As long as you
think of this as an object then you will
see that it makes sense that you're
assigning those vectors some null, is that
it's a pretty simple function names.
Ok let's look at the next thing for
today which is naming matrix dimensions.
Ok so let's create this matrix. First
we're going to create a temporary vector,
temp.vec and into the spector we are going
to put in some values and I would like us
to practice the replicate function
because we haven't used it in awhile so
what are we going to replicate? Remember
with replicate we can just take an
element take an object and replicate it a
couple times, so we're going to start
with a vector. This is what we're
going to put inside replicate, so we're
going to have a vector A and B capital
and then let's say zed zed right? So
this is a simple vector of three
elements A,B,Zz and now what we're going to
do is we are going to copy this vector and
we're going to put it into replicate and
then we'll say replicate it three times. So
if I run this part by itself, now let's
just put it aside for a second now what
we will get is will get A,B,Zz, we'll
get A,B,Zz and we'll get A,B,Zz
again three times. Now what I wanted
to show you today is a cool trick in
replicate what we're doing right now is
we telling it how many times to
replicate so it's the same as saying times
equals 3, so if I run this, I'll get exactly
the same result the three times this
vector has been replicated and it should
be glued into one long vector of line
elements, but where else you can say is
you can say instead of times, you can say
each and if you say each what will
happen is instead of replicating the whole
vector, each one of these elements will
be replicated three times. Let's have a look,
if I run that, now I get a different
story, I get AAA, BBB, ZZZ so that
can be convenient in some certain
circumstances. In fact, that's what we're
going to use today, so just to make a note
of that,
that's how you can also use replicate
that's a kind of a different way to
replicate your values that you're
supplying to the vector, to the function
so there we go that's how we're going to
use replicate, let's run that
and let's look at our temp.vec now. So
as you expect it its AA, BB, ZZ and
now what we're going to do is we're
going to create a matrix out of this
vector. Now I did say we don't we won't
be using the matrix function a lot, but
in this case let's give it a go just to
practice and kind of sink in that
knowledge that we learned in the previous tutorial.
Also temp.vec right? We were saying
we're calling the matrix function and
then we have to as you can see here
we've got to supply the data then we say
how many rows, how many columns. We know
that our vector has an element so we'll
make it a three by three matrix. Around
that and I call Bravo, you'll see that
I've got our matrices. It's nice and neat
its AAA, BBB, ZZZ because
that's how our vector was structured and as
you can see it's not a named matrix. It
doesn't have a rows, names or column
names.
Let's fix that, let's explore how we can
do that and we're going to explore a
function that's very similar to the
names function. We're going to look at
row names. We'll start with row names, so row
names -
Bravo, if i run that now, I get a null
because there are no real names and just
as with names I can supply some values
here. So let's say, I want to supply
values "how", "are" and "you" and I can't even put
a question mark here. So if I run that and I'll
look at let's say bravo, you'll see that
this matrix now has row names and
similar same thing for columns so I can
call the function, call names and supply
Bravo. If I run that, no call names, if I
assign some values, so let's say we'll
assign X, Y and Z. Around that, if I
look at bravo now, you'll see that we've
got both row names and column names, so
let's say we want to put a 0 in not not
an L. Let's put 20 in here, in
the middle.
Let's put 20 in the very middle. How
would we do that? We'll say bravo, so we
can go 2-2 right? Because it is a
second row, second column or we can say
R because that's the name of the row
and then in quotation marks and then we
can say Y because that's the name of
the column and if we if we just run that,
we'll get
the value in there, which is a letter B
and if we want to put a 0 in there, we
just put it there in there and now if we
look at bravo, you'll see that there's a
0 in the very middle and finally if you
want to we can also check row names
right? We can check row names or
call names choose whichever one you like,
we can check there they are. That's the row names
for bravo and if you want to get rid of
them so this might be useful some of you
might find this useful because sometimes
you get named rows or columns which you don't
really want to get rid of that same
thing just type in null and look at
Bravo. You see,
we got rid of the row names, the column
names are still there. Ok so that's how you
rename matrices and vectors and as you
can see, I'm sure you guys will agree.
This is all very simple stuff but as
we'll see throughout the rest of the
tutorials of this section. It is very
important to know how to work with named
objects in R, and that brings us to the
end of today's tutorial. I look forward to
seeing you next time and until then,
happy coding.